feat(rdb): shared responsibility MTA-4383 (#2993)
scaleway/docs-content: managed-databases/postgresql-and-mysql/reference-content/security-and-reliability.mdx

    - Snapshots are disk "pictures" which contain all ready-to-use data structures for PostgreSQL and MySQL. Restoring a snapshot should usually take a few minutes, but can take longer depending on your Database Instance size and disk size.
    - Backups are logical backups of a database and only "raw" data from tables. Restoring a backup requires recreating objects such as indexes. Depending on the number of indexes, total data size, and database size, the restore operations can take from a few minutes to several hours.

Refer to the [How to manage backups](/managed-databases/postgresql-and-mysql/how-to/manage-manual-backups/#how-to-restore-backups) and the [How to manage snapshots](/managed-databases/postgresql-and-mysql/how-to/manage-snapshots/#how-to-create-a-database-instance-from-a-snapshot) documentation pages for more information.

## Failover

If you use [High Availability](#availability-and-durability) as your Database Instance configuration type, whenever the primary node becomes unavailable, a failover will be performed automatically after the unavailability is detected.

### Read Replicas

> A Read Replica is a live copy of a Database Instance that behaves like an Instance, but that only allows read-only connections. The replica mirrors the data of the primary Database node and any changes made are replicated to the replica asynchronously.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Read Replica is a live copy of a Database Instance that behaves like an Instance, but that only allows read-only connections. The replica mirrors the data of the primary Database node, and any changes made are replicated to the replica asynchronously.
```

> Creating, deleting and promoting a Read Replica are actions performed by you. Scaleway then automatically creates, deletes or promotes the Read Replica.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creating, deleting, and promoting a Read Replica are actions performed by you. Scaleway then automatically creates, deletes or promotes the Read Replica.
```

  <Message type="note">
    The time it takes to create the Read Replica depends on the volume of data being replicated.
  </Message>

When [promoting a Read Replica](/managed-databases/postgresql-and-mysql/how-to/manage-read-replica/#how-to-promote-a-read-replica) to a main node, make sure that the main node has completed all ongoing operations and that the Read Replica lag is down to zero before promoting it.

If ongoing operations are not complete before the promote operation starts, some operations from the main node might not be contained in the newly promoted node.

Refer to the [How to manage Read Replicas](/managed-databases/postgresql-and-mysql/how-to/manage-read-replica/#how-to-promote-a-read-replica) documentation page for more information.

## Monitoring

> Monitoring is an essential pillar to ensure the of security and reliability of your services. The practice provide real-time insights into the performance, security, and resource allocation of your databases. Knowing the behaviors of databases in real-time allows you to proactively identify and resolve issues and optimize operational efficiency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Monitoring is an essential pillar to ensure the security and reliability of your services. The practice provides real-time insights into the performance, security, and resource allocation of your databases. Knowing the behaviors of databases in real-time allows you to proactively identify and resolve issues and optimize operational efficiency.
```

### Metrics and logs

Database default logs and metrics are stored inside **Cockpit**.

This includes:

>   - **Metrics**: CPU, memory, disk usage, replication lag and number of connections. Metrics are refreshed every minute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **Metrics**: CPU, memory, disk usage, replication lag, and number of connections. Metrics are refreshed every minute.
```

  - **Logs**:
      - PostgreSQL logs at a default level `log_error_verbosity="VERBOSE"` ([see PostgreSQL documentation](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/runtime-config-logging.html#GUC-LOG-ERROR-VERBOSITY)). Every request longer than 5 seconds is also logged.
        <Message type="note">
          The `log_min_duration_statement` parameter is set at `5000` and cannot be changed.
        </Message>

        <Message type="tip">
          For more granular log details, you can activate the [pgaudit extension](/managed-databases/postgresql-and-mysql/api-cli/pg-audit/).
        </Message>
      - MySQL logs at a default level `log_error_verbosity=2` ([see MySQL documentation](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/server-system-variables.html#sysvar_log_error_verbosity)). Logging slow queries is not activated by default, but you can activate it using `slow_query_log` and `long_query_time`. 

<Message type="important">

>   Any changes performed on the default log verbosity levels and threshold can lead to an increase in storage size which might make your database unavailable. These potential impacts on the database hence remain your responsibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Any changes performed on the default log verbosity levels and threshold can lead to an increase in storage size, which might make your database unavailable. These potential impacts on the database hence remain your responsibility.
```

</Message>

### Disk full

Once full, a database will switch to the `disk_full` state and only accept read requests.

To troubleshoot the issue, you can either:

    - Increase disk volume size, or
    - Clear data from your database.

Refer to the [Dealing with disk_full mode in a Database Instance](/managed-databases/postgresql-and-mysql/troubleshooting/disk-full/) documentation page for more information.

<Message type="note">
  You are responsible for monitoring disk size growth and performing any required disk size increases.
</Message>

### Database performance

> Scaleway creates your Database Instance with a default configuration fine-tuned to optimize database performance for standard workloads, and to monitor and solve issues caused by hardware, operating systems, or file system level failures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scaleway creates your Database Instance with a default configuration fine-tuned to optimize database performance for standard workloads and monitor and solve issues caused by hardware, operating systems, or file system level failures.
```

You are responsible for:
    - Any impacts on performance incurred from SQL queries or database-specific configurations you set up, such as creating indexes, triggering backups, or changing advanced settings  (e.g. `max_connections`).
    - Sizing the Database Instance appropriately for your workload.

## Configuration and version management

Configuration and version management are critical for maintaining consistency, reliability, and scalability across your services, and to ensure that deployments are accurately configured, tracked, and updated.

> This practice fosters streamlined development processes, minimizes errors, and facilitates efficient troubleshooting, ultimately enhancing overall system stability and agility.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```
I would remove this line ("This practice (...) agility"), I find it too generic to provide significant information to a customer

### Database instance configuration

Scaleway creates your Database Instance with a default configuration proven for standard use cases. Certain options are restricted to ensure reliability.

You can [modify some advanced settings](/managed-databases/postgresql-and-mysql/how-to/configure-advanced-settings/), such as `effective_cache_size` or `max_connections` in PostgreSQL, but you are responsible for any impacts on your database availability and performance.

### Version management

Two types of engine version upgrades are available for your databases:

| Upgrade Type | Description|
| ------------ | ------------------- |
| Minor versions | These are updates within the same version and are performed automatically. The updates include security fixes and bug fixes and are designed to be backward compatible. |

> | Major versions    | You can trigger major version upgrades on your Database Instance. Once you activate upgrade, Scaleway automatically creates a clone of your database with the chosen PostgreSQL version. Depending on the option you choose, you might need to manually switch traffic to your newly created database and/or stop write operations on your source database. Refer to the [How to upgrade your Database Instance engine version](/managed-databases/postgresql-and-mysql/how-to/upgrade-version/) documentation page for more information|

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Major versions    | You can trigger major version upgrades on your Database Instance. Once you trigger an upgrade, Scaleway automatically creates a clone of your database with the chosen PostgreSQL version. Depending on the option you choose, you might need to manually switch traffic to your newly created database and/or stop write operations on your source database. Refer to the [How to upgrade your Database Instance engine version](/managed-databases/postgresql-and-mysql/how-to/upgrade-version/) documentation page for more information|
```

### Database extensions

For security reasons, we support a defined set of [databases extensions for PostgreSQL](/faq/databases-for-postgresql-and-mysql/#which-postgresql-extensions-are-available).

For security and reliability reasons, we only support a specific version of each extension for each PostgreSQL major version.

> This means we will only update the versions of an extension that are available with our supported PostgreSQL major versions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This means we will only update the available versions of an extension when supporting a new PostgreSQL major versions.
```

As extensions are usually less trusted components, we put in place several security measures to prevent privilege escalations from an extension.

However, the extensions are provided "as is". When installing and using an extension, you remain responsible for its usage, compatibility, and potential side effects on database objects or existing users and queries.

## Data protection

Data protection allows you to safeguard sensitive information from unauthorized access to prevent breaches and data loss. Implementing robust encryption, access controls, and backup strategies ensures data integrity and compliance with regulatory standards.

### Encryption in transit
Managed Databases for PostgreSQL and MySQL supports SSL connections and allows you to download TLS certificates from Managed Databases.

You remain responsible for configuring encryption for the SQL clients connecting to the database, by carrying out actions such as activating SSL in client configuration options or renewing TLS certificates.

When used by SQL Clients, SSL connections will be performed end-to-end, i.e. from your SQL client up to the Database Instance executing SQL queries.

<Message type="note">

>   Scaleway's components in between such as load balancers do not decrypt Managed Databases' traffic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Scaleway's components in between, such as load balancers, do not decrypt Managed Databases' traffic.
```

>   Scaleway's components in between, such as load balancers, do not decrypt Managed Databases' traffic.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  Scaleway's components in between, such as Load Balancers, do not decrypt Managed Databases' traffic.
```

Reviewer 3: Shouldn't it be "Scaleway's in between components"? not sure about this but "Scaleway's components in between" sounds weird to me

Author: I dont think so bc in this case it's talking about the specific occurrence and not characterizing these components as always in between, if that makes sense? but we can ask a native

Author: ```suggestion
  Any intermediary Scaleway components, such as Load Balancers, do not decrypt Managed Databases' traffic.
```
thanks @RoRoJ

</Message>

> ### Scaleway Access

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Scaleway access
```

    - `RelationalDatabasesReadOnly` and
    - `RelationalDatabasesFullAccess`

You are responsible for attributing these permissions to the relevant users or applications and reviewing these accesses frequently.

Refer to the [How to create a policy](/identity-and-access-management/iam/how-to/create-policy/) documentation page to set up a policy for Managed Databases for PostgreSQL and MySQL.

### Database access management

Managed Databases for PostgreSQL and  MySQL allow you to manage access to user accounts inside your database.

These typically correspond to PostgreSQL or MySQL users inside your Database Instance who can connect to your database and perform SQL queries.

To ensure your Database Instance security and reliability, we limit the set of SQL actions you can perform or give to other users, such as `CREATE PUBLICATION` or `CREATE USER user SUPERUSER` in PostgreSQL.

You are responsible for giving access to the relevant users or applications and reviewing these accesses frequently.

> Moreover, these accesses are stored inside your Database Instance only and are independent from Scaleway IAM, which means you are responsible for ensuring they are properly backed up or removed when required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moreover, these accesses are stored inside your Database Instance only and are independent of Scaleway IAM, which means you are responsible for ensuring they are properly backed up or removed when required.
```

Refer to the [How to manage user permissions](/managed-databases/postgresql-and-mysql/how-to/manage-permissions/) documentation page for more information.

## Security best practices

For optimal security, we recommend that you:

1. Activate connection encryption and certificate validation in clients connecting to the database
    - **For PostgreSQL clients**: set the ssl-mode option to `verify-full`
    - **For MySQL clients**: enable the `VERIFY_IDENTITY` option

> 2. Restrict external access to databases by limiting IPs able to connect to database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Restrict external access to databases by limiting IPs able to connect to the database.
```
